This directory is the code generation target for the Constructor model when targetting Rust.

Like the other targets, the crate is a combination of the output of three different components:

1. The output of Dafny code generation for Rust (`src/implementation_from_dafny.rs`)
2. The output of `smithy-dafny` shim/conversion generation for Rust (the `conversions` module)
3. The output of `smithy-rs` (all other files)

Most of the `smithy-rs` output is not modified,
only trimmed down to cut out components that aren't relevant for Polymorph libraries.
The main exception is `client.rs` and the operation builders such as `operation/get_constructor.rs`,
which instantiate the underlying Dafny client implementation and invoke operations on it, respectively,
instead of sending the operation value through an orchestrated plugin stack
that eventually serializes it and sends it to a remote service endpoint.

This crate also includes manually-written Rust tests demonstrating what it's like
to work with the Rust API we're exposing.
Although we need to also get the Dafny-generated tests working,
the manually-written ones are also valuable.

It looks likely that `smithy-rs` is pluggable enough that we can plug our conversion code generation
into it without having to fork its implementation.
This means we should be able to get 2. and 3. above out of a single call to `smithy-rs`.
Hence I've optimistically left the "// Code generated by software.amazon.smithy.rust.codegen.smithy-rs. DO NOT EDIT."
header on both kinds of files.

Note that even 1. is hand-modified, as the Dafny Rust code generator is not yet complete,
and rejects some features such as the type paramter variance specifier on `Option<+T>`.
We are trusting that Dafny will soon generate exactly the content of `implementation_from_dafny.rs`
and it is a priority to set up CI to assert that ASAP.
